# Pension 401(k) data set

## Description
Data set on financial wealth and 401(k) plan participation. The source of this data set is the `hdm` package in `R`. It was created on 2/20/2023, by calling the `data(pension)` command in `R` after loading the `hdm` package and then writing the created dataframe to a csv file.

## Format
Dataframe with the following variables (amongst others):

**p401**

participation in 401(k)

**e401**

eligibility for 401(k)

**a401**

401(k) assets

**tw**

total wealth (in US $)

**tfa**

financial assets (in US $)

**net_tfa**

net financial assets (in US $)

**nifa**

non-401k financial assets (in US $)

**net_nifa**

net non-401k financial assets

**net_n401**

net non-401(k) assets (in US $)

**ira**

individual retirement account (IRA)

**inc**

income (in US $)

**age**

age

**fsize**

family size

**marr**

married

**pira**

participation in IRA

**db**

defined benefit pension

**hown**

home owner

**educ**

education (in years)

**male**

male

**twoearn**

two earners

**nohs, hs, smcol, col**

dummies for education: no high-school, high-school, some college, college

**hmort**

home mortage (in US $)

**hequity**

home equity (in US $)

**hval**

home value (in US $)

**i1-i7**

are income category indicators, 

**a1-a5**

are age category indicators

**icat** 

is the categorical variable that produces i1-i7. 

**ecat** 

is the categorical variable that generates education dummies (no high school, high school, some college, college). 

**Dum91**

is a dummy for 1991 which is equal to 1 for all observations because we are only use the 1991 SIPP. 

**tfa_he**

is net_tfa + home equity.

**zhat**

outcome of first stage prediction in instrumental variable analysis, from the academic paper that introduced this data


## Details
The sample is drawn from the 1991 Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP) and consists of 9,915 observations. The observational units are household reference persons aged 25-64 and spouse if present. Households are included in the sample if at least one person is employed and no one is self-employed. The data set was analysed in Chernozhukov and Hansen (2004) and Belloni et al. (2014) where further details can be found. They examine the effects of 401(k) plans on wealth using data from the Survey of Income and Program Participation using 401(k) eligibility as an instrument for 401(k) participation.

## References
V. Chernohukov, C. Hansen (2004). The impact of 401(k) participation on the wealth distribution: An instrumental quantile regression analysis. The Review of Economic and Statistics 86 (3), 735–751.

A. Belloni, V. Chernozhukov, I. Fernandez-Val, and C. Hansen (2014). Program evaluation with high-dimensional data. Working Paper.